I screwed it up. I wasn't proud of it. I tried it. But anyway, it's not that I'm
a gourmet cook. I hate that word. It's just that if I eat something someplace
and I like it, I just kind of like to figure out how it's done and try to
duplicate it as well. What about you? Oh, no. I was just wondering when I read
some of your works and some of the foods you come up with on various planets.
Oh, well. Yeah, I get hungry. I couldn't, a lot of that junk, I wouldn't,
there's no way, kind of meat and potatoes. Yeah, okay, he's got the tape
running, so I'll just get through these other questions. So we're being taped
again. Yeah. Do you sell well over in Europe? Well, it varies. Essentially,
yeah, I do. Especially in the Netherlands, Holland. then I do well in France and
in Germany, England, and lesser extent Italy, and in Spain I don't think
there's, nobody does too well, maybe in Portugal. The best I sell though is in
Holland. Next is all about the same. In Scandinavia, nobody does very well up
there either. They all read English. There's a great deal of market for
translations. Translations in the Swedish thing. A lot of English books over
there. Anybody who likes science fiction generally gets in English. Well, have
you been translated into a number of languages then?
All the usual ones.
I don't think I can translate it into Ngarik
or Tasmanian or anything like that, but, you know, just usual languages. I don't
know if I've sold anything in Russia or not, I just don't know.
I suspect not, though. I'm too much of a non-collectivist, I think, and also I
don't attack the institutions of the United States, to prepare. But you want to
sell in Russia, then you have to be a very stern critic of conventional
institutions. Rather than attacking, I admire the world. The United States, it's
amazingly well, how well it functions. Obvious drawbacks, obvious discrepancies.
But when you think how complicated, you know, this country we live in is, and
how many people are all individuals in, not necessarily working against each
other, but in competition with each other, it's amazing how many happy people
the system is able to keep going. Now, that's not to say that I am endorsing
every aspect of life, obviously. But I still sometimes wonder about it. Uh, it
just seems as if, well,
that's enough of that. Yeah, okay. Yeah. In the 60s, you did some mystery
writing, in fact, I think you're the only person who's ever won both, what, the
Hugo and the Edgar Award for science fiction and the Edgar for mysteries. Paul
Anderson has got it. Paul Anderson did? Yeah. Oh, I didn't know that. We talked
to him last year. Yeah. Well, I was going to ask you. What made you try the
mystery route? When I read for fun, that's the stuff I read. I don't ever read
any so-called science fiction. That's the last thing I've read. I don't even
read much mysteries. About every three years I may go on a mystery kick and pick
up maybe four or five of them. to go through. But
it's kind of an artificial feel, like science fiction is, in a way. Let's
scratch that, though. Take that out.
Artificial is the wrong word. If I try to explain myself, I'd be talking too
long ago. But anyway, Anyway, I do like mysteries.
In fact I'd do some more if I had time. I don't do them because there's not
enough money in them. I make more money in science fiction than mysteries. Well,
isn't some of your science fiction work, say the Magnus Ryd-Off or the Kurth
Gerson stuff. Those are almost detective kind of stories. Yeah, they almost are.
Then I was using Miro Edtzel, the effectuator.
It's like a detective. In fact that's how I got Miro Hetzel started. Because I
wanted to have a, I wasn't so pleased. Magnus Reidolf was okay for his time. but
I want to get something just a little bit different and so I got Nero Hetzel and
if I have time I want to do some more I've got uh well anyways I was just going
to say that I was going to confront Nero Hetzel with the task of discovering the
perpetrator of a crime which had not been committed in an unknown world at an
unknown time and nobody knows why that was the problem is going to face it.
Somebody's going to say, here's something I want you to do. Solve this problem.
And I worked it out, actually, believe it or not. In other words, if you have
time to write it, you'll write it someday. Yeah. Okay, I've noticed in the last
few years, I'm not sure if this is true or not, but I've noticed an increasing
critical attention to your work. Play more recognition on terms on the Yeah,
I've noticed that too. What's your reaction to that? Well, every knock is a
boost. The more the better. Okay. Yeah. In other words, if I get some critical
attention, I'll start selling more. Make more money. Which is the name of the
game. Yeah? Yeah, I guess so. Do you well you certainly must have some desire to
be in the far future to be remembered and studied or you just want to be noted
as a freelance writer who made a living well obviously if I have to take my
choice I'll take the first one
but
the way I'd like to be remembered is a very rich writer who changed the way that
people perceived the world. Joe Joseph, of course. Got a label out of the Joe.
Oh, I like that. Yeah. But I like the idea of being, I want to be remembered as
a very wealthy writer. Okay. Okay. Do you have any movie nibbles? That's the way
to get wealthy. Yeah, I know. Actually, I just had some just the other day. But
it's so tenuous that several levels come to think of it. In fact, when I think
about it a little bit, there's one from France on Bad Rivals, I don't know if
you know that story or not. But to my terror, I'm feeling that I have a horror
and agony. I find that I find a way I'll write through this thing. I make a
movie on that in France, I am out. I don't get vilched. So then in England,
there's some kind of vague nibbles on something else. And then just the other
day, I was talking to some people from Hollywood, and there's some nibbles on
something else. And then, again, as soon as I get this, finish this thing, I'm
going to start working treatment on a suspense story. which will be deep sea
sailing. I have a... my son and I actually together. We have a big boat. And
we're trying to get out to sea and sail at least down the South Pacific on it.
And I've got this idea for a story, a spent story on this boat. And I'd like to
see if I can make some money on it. okay now you've mentioned this throughout
the talk i just want to sort of draw this together now for your your future
plans for science fiction fantasy works you're going to do some more kugel maybe
and you have just finished that long i just finished the first draft just
finished okay on that medieval type book you said yeah it's medieval fantasy
it's uh to like that King Arthur stuff it predates the legendary well that the
whole art Arthurian stuff it's say 150 years before this and it's a kind of a
similar atmosphere but all the different similar but different but it's that
kind of a locale that of the Arthurian times. But it's got nothing to do with
King Arthur. Nor any holy grails or that sort. It's totally different. And you
may write some more Miro Hetzel too. Yes. But if I, if time, time is just a
factor in all these things. See there's something else I wanted to do and I
could have forgot what it was then. in a new course I'll come to me I don't
have. Well, there's Alastor. There's lots of Alastor. I've got three thousand
planets there to deal with. Right. And keep me busy a little bit. Oh, there's
lots of stuff to be done. All you have to do is get started on it. Yeah, okay.
Listen, I just have maybe two more here. My favorite story of yours, I don't
know what you can say about this. I'm not even sure if I have a question on it,
but it's Green
Yeah, I'm an optimistic. Alright,
I'm going to ask you if you're an optimistic individual. Yeah, I'm an
optimistic.
Well, it's hard to be a continual
optimist. and it's not a very pleasant way to live to be a pessimist. I'd much
prefer being an optimist, but then on the other hand, it's evident to all of us
that life is basically tragic. You just get things going and then you're dead.
That's hard to refute. And it's hard to be an optimism in the face of this grim,
dark reality underneath, you know. But as far as living from day to day, you
might as well enjoy your life. Because who knows what comes after? Yeah, the way
I connect that to green magic is that the protagonist, I forget his name, I
think it was Harry, I can't remember. he is never again going to be happy on
earth after he's experienced the Green Realm it's just essentially the story it
just remarks quietly that if you're able to achieve all your all your goals
easily nothing seems fun anymore I guess that I don't want to put it into words
like that too much because Because I did not have that in mind when I was
writing it. In fact, I wrote the thing... A damn dog was yelling at somebody
coming in here. I wrote the story without being thought in mind. Just the way
the story came. That's the way it turned out. In other words, I did not sit down
and say I'm going to write a story about the futility of dreams. Or the horror
of human existence. that they loved him.
I might have some extra ones. But I, Tim probably might have. Except Tim
Underwood, I asked him once. Yeah. I'd like to use the phone sometimes. What is
it about, Dan? That's my little teenage kid. Yeah. He wants me off the phone.
You think if he wrote Tim Underwood a letter and just asked him if he had any
more extras? Well, no, I asked him once. He said, well, you know, he says I
should keep these things. because they go up and appreciate. But he says, I just
don't have people write me for him, and I just send him out. And I don't know
whether he has any more or not. Why don't you give him a call? Yeah, okay, we
will. Yeah, 752-7920.
752-7920. What's the area code? What is he? Back in Pennsylvania? He's right
here. Oh, I thought he was out there in the east. No, that's Chuck Miller back
in the east. Oh, okay, okay. Yeah, it's just, he lives in San Francisco. Yeah,
okay. I might have some downstairs. I don't know how many I've got. I might have
one or two. I just don't know. You must spend half your life signing some of
those. I've signed a lot of them, yeah. I've signed, signed, signed, signed.
Well, listen, I've taken enough of your time, Mr. Vance. We really appreciate
this. What we do now, this show probably won't go on until after the first of
the year. We tape way ahead. so when we get it edited we will send you copies of
the tape and and you know look forward to your future work with great
anticipation and we appreciate the time very much thank you